OSDOCS-3048 Tech preview of KEDA in 4.11 (#42918)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nodes-pods-autoscaling-custom-prometheus-config.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * nodes/nodes-pods-autoscaling-custom.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nodes-pods-autoscaling-custom-prometheus-config_{context}"]
= Configuring the custom metrics autoscaler to use {product-title} monitoring

You can use the installed {product-title} monitoring as a source for the metrics used by the custom metric autoscaler. However, there are some additional configurations you must perform.

[NOTE]
====
These steps are not required for an external Prometheus source.
====

You must perform the following tasks, as described in this section:

> * create a service account to get a token

Reviewer: These should be capitalized

Author: Need periods, too, in that case!

* Create a role.
* Add that role to the service account.
* Reference the token in the trigger authentication object used by Prometheus.

.Prerequisites

> * {product-title} monitoring must be installed.

Reviewer 2: Another prerequisite is, that monitoring of user-defined workloads must be enabled in {product-title} monitoring: and paste a link here: http://file.rdu.redhat.com/mburke/OSDOCS-3048-custom-autoscaling-keda/monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.html#creating-user-defined-workload-monitoring-configmap_configuring-the-monitoring-stack

* The Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator must be installed. 

.Procedure

To configure custom metrics autoscaler to work with Prometheus Custom Monitoring:

. Change to the project with the the object you want to scale:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc project my-project
----

. Use the following command to create a service account, if your cluster does not have one:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create serviceaccount <service_account>
----
+
where:
+
<service_account>:: Specifies the name of the service account.

. Use the following command to locate the token assigned to the service account:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe serviceaccount <service_account>
----
+
where:
+
<service_account>:: Specifies the name of the service account.
+

> .Example output

Reviewer: I think this example output is indented too far. It's indented with the service_account description, but it should be left aligned with the command block above it

Author: @bergerhoffer Do you know how to configure this in asciidoc?

Reviewer: @mburke5678 I usually have to play with things like this to see what works.

I think if you put a blank line above the + above the example output, it shifts the indentation correctly.

If that doesn't work, I think you can also use `--` around things to keep the indentation right. Like this might work:

```
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe serviceaccount <service_account>
----
+
--
where:

<service_account>:: Specifies the name of the service account.
--
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
```

+
.. Create a YAML file with the following parameters:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: thanos-metrics-reader
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - ""
  resources:
  - pods
  verbs:
  - get
- apiGroups:
  - metrics.k8s.io
  resources:
  - pods
  - nodes
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
----

.. Create the CR object:
+ 
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <file-name>.yaml
----

. Create a role binding for reading Thanos metrics:
+
.. Create a YAML file similar to the following:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: thanos-metrics-reader <1>
  namespace: my-project <2>
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: Role
  name: thanos-metrics-reader
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: thanos <3>
  namespace: my-project <4>
----
<1> Specifies the name of the role you created.
<2> Specifies the namespace of the object you want to scale.
<3> Specifies the name of the service account to bind to the role.
<4> Specifies the namespace of the object you want to scale.
.. Create the CR object:
+ 
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <file-name>.yaml
----

> You can now deploy a scaled object or scaled job to enable autoscaling for your application, as described in the following sections. To use {product-title} monitoring as the source, in the trigger, or scaler, specify the `prometheus` type and use `\https://thanos-querier.openshift-monitoring.svc.cluster.local:9092` as the `serverAddress`.

Reviewer 2: Would be nice if we can show here the actual ScaledObject and highlight that the user needs to use `\https://thanos-querier.openshift-monitoring.svc.cluster.local:9092` as the `serverAddress` and that `namespace` property in the trigger configuration must be set to the namespace where the workload is deployed.
https://github.com/zroubalik/keda-openshift-examples/blob/main/prometheus/ocp-monitoring/scaledobject.yaml

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * nodes/nodes-pods-autoscaling-custom.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nodes-pods-autoscaling-custom-prometheus-config_{context}"]

> = Configuring the custom metrics autoscaler to use Prometheus Cluster Monitoring

Reviewer 2: This should be IMHO:
```suggestion
= Configuring the custom metrics autoscaler to use OpenShift Container Platform monitoring
```
-> http://file.rdu.redhat.com/mburke/OSDOCS-3048-custom-autoscaling-keda/monitoring/monitoring-overview.html

> You can use the installed Prometheus Cluster Monitoring as a source for metrics for the custom metric autoscaler. However, there is some additional configuration you must perform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the installed OpenShift Container Platform monitoring as a source for metrics for the custom metric autoscaler. However, there is some additional configuration you must perform.
```

Author: @zroubalik I added this to the topic also. Is this correct? We don't list this server address in the docs. I assume it's not needed for regular use.

> To use {product-title} monitoring as the soure, in the trigger/scaler, specify the `prometheus` type and use `https://thanos-querier.openshift-monitoring.svc.cluster.local:9092` as the `serverAddress`. `

Reviewer 2: As of today the address needs to be specified, should be fixed in future release though.

You must perform the following tasks, as described in this section:

* create a service account to get a token
* create a Role
* add that role to the service account
* reference the token in the trigger authentication object used by Prometheus

.Prerequisites

> * If you use a custom metrics autoscale for scaling on CPU/memory, your cluster administrator must have properly configured cluster metrics. You can use the `oc describe PodMetrics <pod-name>` command to determine if metrics are configured. If metrics are configured, the output appears similar to the following, with CPU and Memory displayed under Usage.

Reviewer 2: This prerequisite here doesn't make much sense (it's only valid for CPU/Memory scaler), this is Prometheus one. Enabling OpenShift Monitoring for user workload should be here instead.
